README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b34c21a-8031-43d3-a172-44e039b58190" alt="nibbler gopher" width="256px"/></p>

[![](https://github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler/actions)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/naughtygopher/nibbler/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/naughtygopher/nibbler?branch=main)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/creativecreature/sturdyc/blob/master/LICENSE)

# Nibbler

Nibbler is a resilient, minimal, package which helps you implement micro-batch processing.

## What is Micro-batch Processing?

Micro-batch processing is a way to handle data by breaking a big task into smaller pieces and processing them one by one. This method is useful in real-time data or streaming situations, wher ,the incoming data is split into "micro-batches" and processed quickly, rather than waiting to collect all data at once.

The same concept can also be extended to handle events processing. So, we have a queue subscriber, and instead of processing the events individually, we create micro batches and process them.

The processing of a single micro batch can be triggered in two ways, based on a time ticker or if the micro batch size is full. i.e. process a non empty batch if duration X has passed or if the batch size is full

### Config

```golang
type BatchProcessor[T any] func(ctx context.Context, trigger trigger, batch []T) error

type Config[T any] struct {
	// ProcessingTimeout is context timeout for processing a single batch
	ProcessingTimeout time.Duration
    // TickerDuration is the ticker duration, for when a non empty batch would be processed
	TickerDuration    time.Duration
	// Size is the micro batch size
	Size uint

    // Processor is the function which processes a single batch
	Processor BatchProcessor[T]

	// ResumeAfterErr if true will continue listening and keep processing if the processor returns
	// an error, or if processor panics. In both cases, ProcessorErr would be executed
	ResumeAfterErr bool
    // ProcessorErr is executed if the processor returns erorr or panics
	ProcessorErr   func(failedBatch []T, err error)
}
```

## How to use nibbler?

```golang
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"sync"
	"time"

	"github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler"
)

type db struct {
	data         sync.Map
	totalBalance int
}

func (d *db) BulkAddAccountsAndBalance(pp []AccStatement) error {
	// assume we are doing a bulk insert/update into the database instead of inserting one by one.
	// Bulk operations reduce the number of I/O required between your application and the database.
	// Thereby making it better in most cases.
	for _, p := range pp {
		d.data.Store(p.AccountID, p.Balance)
		d.totalBalance += p.Balance
	}
	return nil
}

type Bank struct {
	db *db
}

func (bnk *Bank) ProcessAccountsBatch(
	ctx context.Context,
	trigger nibbler.Trigger,
	batch []AccStatement,
) error {
	err := bnk.db.BulkAddAccountsAndBalance(batch)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	return nil
}

func (bnk *Bank) TotalBalance() int {
	return bnk.db.totalBalance
}

func (bnk *Bank) TotalAccounts() int {
	counter := 0
	bnk.db.data.Range(func(key, value any) bool {
		counter++
		return true
	})
	return counter
}

type AccStatement struct {
	AccountID string
	Balance   int
}

func main() {
	bnk := Bank{
		db: &db{
			data: sync.Map{},
		},
	}

	nib, err := nibbler.Start(&nibbler.Config[AccStatement]{
		Size:           10,
		TickerDuration: time.Second,
		Processor:      bnk.ProcessAccountsBatch,
	})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	receiver := nib.Receiver()
	for i := range 100 {
		accID := fmt.Sprintf("account_id_%d", i)
		receiver <- AccStatement{
			AccountID: accID,
			Balance:   50000 / (i + 1),
		}
	}

	// wait for batches to be processed. Ideally this wouldn't be required as our application
	// would not exit, instead just keep listening to the events stream.
	time.Sleep(time.Second)

	fmt.Printf(
		"Number of accounts %d, total balance: %d\n",
		bnk.TotalAccounts(),
		bnk.TotalBalance(),
	)
}
```

You can find all usage details in the tests.

## The gopher

The gopher used here was created using [Gopherize.me](https://gopherize.me/). Nibbler is out there eating your events/streams
one bite at a time.

Commit message:

[-] updated readme with description for example

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b34c21a-8031-43d3-a172-44e039b58190" alt="nibbler gopher" width="256px"/></p>

[![](https://github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler/actions)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/naughtygopher/nibbler/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/naughtygopher/nibbler?branch=main)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/creativecreature/sturdyc/blob/master/LICENSE)

# Nibbler

Nibbler is a resilient, minimal, package which helps you implement micro-batch processing.

## What is Micro-batch Processing?

Micro-batch processing is a way to handle data by breaking a big task into smaller pieces and processing them one by one. This method is useful in real-time data or streaming situations, wher ,the incoming data is split into "micro-batches" and processed quickly, rather than waiting to collect all data at once.

The same concept can also be extended to handle events processing. So, we have a queue subscriber, and instead of processing the events individually, we create micro batches and process them.

The processing of a single micro batch can be triggered in two ways, based on a time ticker or if the micro batch size is full. i.e. process a non empty batch if duration X has passed or if the batch size is full

### Config

```golang
type BatchProcessor[T any] func(ctx context.Context, trigger trigger, batch []T) error

type Config[T any] struct {
	// ProcessingTimeout is context timeout for processing a single batch
	ProcessingTimeout time.Duration
    // TickerDuration is the ticker duration, for when a non empty batch would be processed
	TickerDuration    time.Duration
	// Size is the micro batch size
	Size uint

    // Processor is the function which processes a single batch
	Processor BatchProcessor[T]

	// ResumeAfterErr if true will continue listening and keep processing if the processor returns
	// an error, or if processor panics. In both cases, ProcessorErr would be executed
	ResumeAfterErr bool
    // ProcessorErr is executed if the processor returns erorr or panics
	ProcessorErr   func(failedBatch []T, err error)
}
```

## How to use nibbler?

Below is an example showing how batching is used for a "banking" app which bulk processes account statements.

```golang
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"sync"
	"time"

	"github.com/naughtygopher/nibbler"
)

type db struct {
	data         sync.Map
	totalBalance int
}

func (d *db) BulkAddAccountsAndBalance(pp []AccStatement) error {
	// assume we are doing a bulk insert/update into the database instead of inserting one by one.
	// Bulk operations reduce the number of I/O required between your application and the database.
	// Thereby making it better in most cases.
	for _, p := range pp {
		d.data.Store(p.AccountID, p.Balance)
		d.totalBalance += p.Balance
	}
	return nil
}

type Bank struct {
	db *db
}

func (bnk *Bank) ProcessAccountsBatch(
	ctx context.Context,
	trigger nibbler.Trigger,
	batch []AccStatement,
) error {
	err := bnk.db.BulkAddAccountsAndBalance(batch)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	return nil
}

func (bnk *Bank) TotalBalance() int {
	return bnk.db.totalBalance
}

func (bnk *Bank) TotalAccounts() int {
	counter := 0
	bnk.db.data.Range(func(key, value any) bool {
		counter++
		return true
	})
	return counter
}

type AccStatement struct {
	AccountID string
	Balance   int
}

func main() {
	bnk := Bank{
		db: &db{
			data: sync.Map{},
		},
	}

	nib, err := nibbler.Start(&nibbler.Config[AccStatement]{
		Size:           10,
		TickerDuration: time.Second,
		Processor:      bnk.ProcessAccountsBatch,
	})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	receiver := nib.Receiver()
	for i := range 100 {
		accID := fmt.Sprintf("account_id_%d", i)
		receiver <- AccStatement{
			AccountID: accID,
			Balance:   50000 / (i + 1),
		}
	}

	// wait for batches to be processed. Ideally this wouldn't be required as our application
	// would not exit, instead just keep listening to the events stream.
	time.Sleep(time.Second)

	fmt.Printf(
		"Number of accounts %d, total balance: %d\n",
		bnk.TotalAccounts(),
		bnk.TotalBalance(),
	)
}
```

You can find all usage details in the tests.

## The gopher

The gopher used here was created using [Gopherize.me](https://gopherize.me/). Nibbler is out there eating your events/streams
one bite at a time.
